The way you maintain meritocracy and
excellence is to make sure that each
person you bring in, and for us this
means all of our faculty, all of our
staff, all of our students, we have to
consistently focus on excellence. Um,
there was a colleague of mine at Duke
who had a sign in his office that said,
"If you have a take a lick of the uh
lollipop of mediocrity, you will suck
forever."
>> Uh, that's pretty good.
>> And I I always liked that.
>> [music]
>> Everybody, we have Sally Kornbluth on
the pod today. She's president of MIT
and a real gem. She's had a really
interesting journey. Within a year of
being hired as president of MIT, uh, she
was summoned to Congress and spoke
alongside the president of Harvard and
U-Penn about all manner of things and
you probably all remember Elise Stefanik
really asking her some tough questions
and all three presidents not really
nailing that. So, we get into that and
her response to it and I think her
response was excellent. Uh, neither the
Harvard uh president nor the uh U-Penn
president made it through uh that
crisis. She not only survived, but she
thrived in it. She also had is having
more recent run-ins with the compact for
excellence in higher education that the
uh federal government gave her, which
was pretty interesting and a reaction to
that I thought was really interesting
and showed terrific leadership. It was
only 11 or 12 institutions that got it
and I thought MIT shined on that. So,
she is good in a crisis and talks a
bunch about that. Sally and I talked a
lot about what I refer to as sustaining
meritocracy.
She's got a giant organization and over
150 years, you know, they are synonymous
with excellence and synonymous with
meritocracy. And the natural state of
things is you kind of regress to the
mean and most companies do that. So, we
talk about how they keep the standards
high and how they sustain it over long
periods of time. I think it's super
applicable to scaling CEOs. She's got a
great quote in there
um that stuck in my head. If you take a
lick of the lollipop of mediocrity, you
sucked forever.
I think she hits the nail on the head on
that one. And then she gets into just
some blocking and tackling of how to be
a CEO of a large organization. Some
things that I needed a reminder on and
hopefully they're useful to you.
And lastly, we talked a bunch about how
to manage how to hire a board and how to
manage a board and how to get the most
out of a board.
I hope you like it. She's a gem.
My nephew Jack is applying to business
schools. He's a wonderful kid and I
really want him to go to Sloan. I went
to Sloan. I teach at Sloan.
And I've worked hard to influence the
process. I went through the front door,
went through the back door, went through
the basement and the attic. Every door I
go to, they're like, "We don't care who
you are. You're not going to influence
the process."
>> 100%.
>> I love that. I love that we were the
first place to bring back SATs and and
ACTs after COVID. I love that we're
needs blind.
Can you talk about that? And how It's
like It's easy for companies to be
meritocracies like we are. It's hard to
scale it. Like, how do we How do you
scale that?
>> Well, you know, first of all, I should
say I had the same experience when I got
here because [laughter]
I was Someone said, "Oh, can you, you
know, speak to someone about getting my
kid into MIT?" And I was like, "Well,
you know, I could just tell them to take
a closer look." No.
>> No.
>> I cannot. I was new here. They were
like, "We do not do that at MIT. We just
don't."
>> I love that.
>> It is It is pure merit. Um you know,
it's interesting. I think the way to
scale meritocracy, if you want to
extrapolate, is how do you scale
excellence?
>> Okay.
>> And the thing is that
when you start a company or when you
start a new team, a new job, um you're
probably the best person out there at
it, right? And there's a temptation to
just hire people. And honestly, bringing
in
just people,
it's better to have nobody.
The way you maintain meritocracy and
excellence is to make sure that each
person you bring in, and for us, this
means all of our faculty, all of our
staff, all of our students, we have to
consistently focus on excellence.
Um there was a colleague of mine at Duke
who had a sign in his office that said,
"If you have a take a lick of the uh
lollipop of mediocrity, you will suck
forever."
>> Uh that's pretty good.
>> And I I always liked that. And you know,
so
we really pay attention
that each hire
is excellent, so that when people
collaborate across MIT, they know it's
not just them that are that are going to
do do good work. They know that the
people next door are also going to do
good work or the people down the hall.
So, I think that is a very big part of
it. Is just having a mindset that
consistency
is really important. And to your point
about going from one door to another
door to another door, it has to be a
consistent message across the whole
institution. Because if one of those
doors had been open,
then you could bet people would have
flooded through that door.
>> have gotten through if there was the
door open.
>> Exactly. [laughter]
Exactly.
>> He did get in. Obviously, I had nothing
to do with it. And I feel bad for him
cuz everyone assumes I got him in. I had
nothing to do with it.
>> Well, you know, the other thing is that
um merit can be defined in a a number of
different ways. I mean, I think people
think that sure, you got to get high
grades to get into MIT. You got to get
have great test scores to get into MIT.
But there's so many dimensions. And I
would define it in this way. We want to
bring in people who can benefit from the
fantastic environment we have and who
will contribute to that fantastic
environment. And there can be a lot of
dimensions on which this is true.
They're not all completely quantifiable.
A lot of them comes through come through
in the
intangibles.
>> cultural or is it written down?
>> It's not exactly written down because
it's a little bit like the if you know
it, you see it and that that obviously
could be
subject to a lot of objectivity. So I
don't mean that it's not written down in
the sense that we don't have certain
criteria in mind. I just mean there's
some flexibility to it to take into
account a wide variety of what you or I
might call excellent fantastic people.
>> Got it. Okay. I I coach all these CEOs.
They're terrific.
And like something happens around 150
employees where the the founder no
longer interviews everyone.
>> Right.
>> And the bar
drops a little bit.
>> Right.
>> And they wake up at 500 employees and
you're like, what the hell happened to
my company? You're that CEO. You dropped
the bar.
And then you try to pick it up at 500.
What would you do? What advice would you
give that CEO?
>> Well, I would say this. First of all,
again coming to the fact that in your
head or in reality, you may be the best
person. You've held up that standard. It
is a lot easier to stop that slide than
to recover from it as you say. So the
most important thing when someone's
starting is to build a strong team to
whom they can delegate and who they can
trust. In other words, there's a little
bit sometimes of trust but verify at the
beginning. You want to see if someone's
really good. But after that,
micromanagement is really problematic.
And
uh it's easy to criticize, but you
really have to let people run a little
bit. And I think to your point, you have
to build a strong structure of
lieutenants along the way when you're
getting to 150 to 500 etc. And if you
can't convey that message down through
the troops,
>> Yeah.
>> you're never going to be able to get
control of it. I have to say, even at a
place like MIT, we do have trouble
though sometimes communicating those
messages, even if we have a hierarchy.
My best example of this was actually for
my previous institution. Okay, everyone
was bugging us, "When are we going to
reopen?" This was after COVID. "When are
we going to reopen? When are we going to
reopen?" And, you know, we sent out an
email to everybody about when we're
going to reopen. It had a 30% opening
rate.
>> Okay. No one really cared that much.
>> THEY CARED, BUT THEY STILL DIDN'T WANT
TO READ leadership emails. So, I really
think that high-touch series of people
who can fan out and carry your message
personally becomes really important.
>> Sally, I have trust issues.
And I found almost all the CEOs I work
with have trust issues. And it's a very,
very small amount of employees they
deeply trust to hire and do things
cross-functionally. Do you have trust
issues?
>> Um, I would say no.
>> Okay.
>> In the sense that I try to I try to sort
of nip that in the bud up front. Which
is, again, you know, people criticized
me a little bit at first when I came in,
"Well, why aren't you turning over these
positions? Why aren't
I think I needed time to assess the
capabilities of every person.
And so, when I make a decision,
I really feel good about it and have a
have a gut feeling. Now, that said,
if someone does violate the trust, or if
someone is really doing a bad job, I
think it's it behooves you to tell them
in a very straightforward, clear way,
right away.
>> Okay.
>> Because once
>> Don't wait.
>> Don't wait. Because once time has gone
on, it becomes harder and harder and
harder. You know, they're kids, you
know, they're family, you know, they're
dogs, you know, "Sorry, you're doing a
really bad job. See you." You can't do
that. And so, um, I find that really
just being very frank when someone's
doing a
less than I want, to be very clear about
what it is. But also, the flip side is
to tell people when they're doing well.
>> Okay.
>> And I think that is sometimes hard to
remember.
You know, it's very easy to kind of
think, "Oh, they're doing a great job
and I'm doing such a great job. Of
course, I'm leading such a great team."
I think people really, really like to
hear it when they're doing well. And if
you can do that, then you can tell
people when things aren't going well.
>> an old CEO trope that you should give
praise five times you should give praise
to everyone sort of a correction. Do you
buy into that ratio or is it a bunch of
BS?
>> Oh, I totally buy into that ratio. I
think that's absolutely right. And you
know what?
>> with that.
>> cost you anything.
>> No, it doesn't.
>> You know, if you're showing gratitudes
gratitude to the people who are doing
things, it doesn't cost you anything.
Now,
if you tell people they're good when
they're not really that good,
um just to kind of temporize, that's
where you really run into trouble.
Because you can't blame them for
thinking they're doing a great job when
you're just kind of saying that to keep
them happy and keep things moving along.
So, I think that ratio is good if you
really believe it,
but if you don't believe it, don't
propagate that message.
>> Okay. I spoke with a bunch of people who
work for you to prepare.
Um did my homework.
>> None of it's true.
>> [laughter]
>> I They said wonderful things.
>> Okay, maybe.
>> Somebody said something that was echoed
a bunch that you're bold but not
overbearing. And when I was a CEO, I was
bold and overbearing. [laughter]
What advice would you give to someone
like me? I'm a I'm like most CEOs. Like,
how?
>> Well, you know, I I have to say that the
training of a scientist who was training
graduate students taught me a lot.
>> Okay.
>> So, being a graduate student can be
fabulous. You're doing wonderful things.
It's so exciting. It's so interesting.
It can also be one of my students called
it the dark tea time of the soul. You
know, you're slogging away. It's like
horrible. And but you have to keep
pushing. Uh that's mostly when your
experiments aren't working. When things
are working, it's like super exciting
and super fun. And so
>> By the way, same for CEOs and founders.
Exactly the same.
>> So, but what I learned was that you want
things from the people who are working.
Particularly when you're starting a lab,
their experiments have to work cuz
you're not doing the experiments every
day. And so you have to think about ways
to motivate them. And sometimes it feels
a little bit Machiavellian.
>> Yep.
>> You know, but what it really is about is
thinking, what do they need?
What can you give them that they need so
that you get what you need from it. And
I learned a lot about individually
catering to people's motivations, trying
to figure out what makes them tick and
makes them really productive, and what
makes them happy. Now, that doesn't
scale infinitely. But for your your
immediate team
there really is a huge amount of
individuality in terms of what what
makes people do good work.
>> Mhm.
>> And I think really getting to know the
people individually becomes extremely
important in terms of motivating them.
And sometimes you're like,
why do they think that's fun or
interesting? But you have to indulge
that.
>> Especially here.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, that's very helpful. There's a
columnist named George Will.
>> Yes.
>> Um he described I think accurately as
inexplicably, like
>> Like why?
>> Yes. ebullient. And I just again I'd ask
from my own perspective, like my day is
like having meetings and reading my
inbox.
It's mostly bad news. You know, it's a
lot of bad news.
>> really really really annoyed.
>> down
and all CEOs get down. Why are you so
ebullient in the face of I'm sure
there's a [__] show going on
>> [laughter]
>> behind you.
So, yeah. Well, you know, in part I
think I'm explicably ebullient, which
is, you know, there are some
unbelievable things going on here. Every
day I hear a discovery that makes my jaw
drop. So, for me to be able to enable
the discoveries of the people around me
I'm, you you essentially helping science
move forward. That's way better than the
science I did myself.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that's pretty fun.
>> The other thing is you two things about
it. One is you got to find humor in some
of this. Like you really can't make some
of this stuff up.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that kind of keeps me, you know, a
little bit up. The other thing is this
um phenomenon in biology called receptor
down-regulation.
>> Okay.
>> means is if you have a receptor for a
drug or for any molecule, if you keep
stimulating it over and over again,
eventually it kind of like goes away and
down-regulates. So, the last few years
have been just like a constant incoming.
And so, eventually you're like, "Okay,
well, I could live miserable all the
time."
>> Okay.
>> Or
you know, I can rise above it and find,
you know, pleasure in all the cool
things we're doing. It doesn't mean I
don't get pissed off every day about
something cuz I do, but you can do that
without like becoming depressed about
it. If you ignore the fact that a lot of
it is a lot of it is pretty annoying.
>> Okay. You've been through some stuff. Do
you get down?
>> I get down when it's personal.
>> Okay.
>> So, one thing about the last few years,
some of the attacks, so for instance,
after I testified in Congress on
anti-Semitism, I got a lot of incoming
that was very personal. And I'm Jewish.
To be called an anti-Semite over and
over again, I did not find
>> Yeah.
>> appropriate.
>> And so, when it's
personal, when people say negative
things about me, some of the emails
people at people sent to me, I was sort
of like, "Does
Wash your mouth out, folks."
>> But would you get down?
>> Transciently.
>> Okay.
>> My my I would get a little bit Now, I
don't get down about all the other junk
that's coming into everybody in our
sector, but yes, I would get transiently
down, but the way I deal with it is to
um just like, you know, talk to people
incessantly. Like I'm a little bit of a
>> Okay.
>> you know, wear it on my sleeve, get it
out of my system. It may wear down the
other people a little bit, but
>> Okay.
>> that's definitely how I operate.
>> Okay, you brought that up. Um
You just started, you barely know your
way around the evening quarter,
and you get summoned to Congress.
>> Yes.
>> What was your You did not see that
coming, I assume. When you got the
summons, what was going on inside of
your head? Who did you call?
>> Well, first of all, it wasn't a choice.
People ask me, "Why did you go?"
And I went because it said, "If you
don't go, it's a summons and you will be
subpoenaed if you don't come." Okay,
that's the first thing. Um
Look, you know, the first people I
obviously talked to are the team,
including people like Alfred Ironside,
you know, our VP for communications. We
talked to I talked to a lot of other
friends in in universities. I did not I
was naive. I think the biggest
disappointment to me of that whole thing
was not that it was hard to deal with
personally, it was that it was theater.
>> It was.
>> And you know, I was a political science
major in college focusing on American
political institutions, and I was so
disappointed in the quality
of the dialogue and the questioning. I I
know that sounds really naive, but I
thought we were really having an
interchange, but it wasn't. It was
political theater.
>> Yes.
>> And I was ill Well, not that I was ill
equipped. I actually think I was
prepared pretty well, and if you listen
to to the full
>> 4 hours of the
>> testimony, the full 4 hours or 5 hours
or whatever it is, or read the
transcript,
it was basically fine until sort of the
gotcha moment at the end, but it
reminded me a lot, you know, I should
have done I I reminded me of the
Remember the Michael Dukakis moment uh
when they Yeah, well, no,
when they were asking about his wife
being attacked, and he was very factual.
>> Yes.
>> I wish I And so, I sort of did that. I
maintained a very factual What I should
have said was, "Oh my god, nobody would
say that on our campus." But, you know,
hindsight is 20/20.
>> Okay, so you wish you had a do-over.
>> I not really cuz I don't want to do it
again, but
but I would have handled it differently.
>> Okay. So, I assume you were prepped by
your lawyers and everybody for that. And
you're sitting there listening to the
president of Harvard and the president
of U Penn. You're watching the whole
thing. And then you answer the question
kind of similarly to them, a little bit
better.
>> No, I was first on that question. That
was the problem.
>> Oh, interesting. On the press, Harvard
was first.
>> Yeah, they'd been going Harvard, Penn,
MIT for every question until that last
question.
>> Did you know you had messed up that
second?
>> No.
I didn't.
>> When did you find out that your 15
minutes of fame
>> [laughter]
>> was right now?
>> well before I saw it on Saturday live,
but I I uh
you know, I I I was
>> look at your phone or you have to go
>> No, because most people who talked to me
were like, "Yeah, you did pretty well."
They didn't realize that that moment
would become viral. You know, as soon as
I read the newspaper, I saw it and you
know, then I started Whenever I start
getting a lot of texts from friends from
my old days at Duke, "How you doing?" I
know there's something really bad out
there. When I get like 10 texts in a
row, I'm like, "Oh my god." But, you
know,
>> So, many of these CEOs I've talked to
and I've interviewed go through major
crises. This is a whopper.
Um
what was it like?
>> So, first of all, I think
you people want their leaders to be calm
>> Yes.
>> and measured. And so, first of all, I
think no matter what for me, no matter
what I was thinking inside and a lot of
it was like, you know,
>> Fine. I'm happy to hear that cuz you
were calm and measured.
>> But, I you have to be calm and measured
on the outside. I mean, you have a human
reaction.
Um but
I just I felt it was so unfair. And it's
interesting because one of my biggest
it's sort of almost a joke in my family.
One of my biggest sort of Achilles heel
heels is the notion that I don't want to
be accused of something I didn't do. And
you know, I even watch lots of crime
shows, etc. And the ones that really
like I can barely watch are the people
who like are falsely accused of crimes.
So, I felt during that whole incident
that
I was being accused of having certain
views or thinking certain things, and
people extrapolated from that. And that
to me was the crux of it. I felt it was
unfair. But, you know, we have a lot to
do around here. So, I had to move past
it.
>> I thought you handled the aftermath
what and I think this is a lesson for
every CEO through crisis like you
clarified your remarks, and you got to
focus back on the organization.
>> back. Now, I was
>> That was one good thing that happened.
The second good thing that happened is
the board publicly came out and backed
you.
And the other two
>> Yeah.
>> stepped down shortly after those
remarks.
>> That's right.
>> So, talk about both those things. Let's
start with the remarks, the
clarification. Who did you call? How did
you think about that? It was very quick
like that was excellent That was
excellent leadership.
>> You know, I tried I tried to not create
another news cycle.
>> Mhm.
>> And I think one thing we did for quite a
long time was
to be very
quiet about it. I mean, you know, I
wasn't about to start like showing up on
TV shows, and I was just very clear with
our community. I think that's the first
thing.
>> Okay.
>> But, the other thing in terms of our um
our board or corporation being
supportive,
that that is actually the pivotal moment
in terms of me surviving it at MIT.
>> Yep.
>> Because they were like, we just hired
her. It was fine. Go away.
>> Yep.
>> And that really created
an environment that I felt I had a lot
of support, I could keep moving on with
what we were doing at MIT. And, you
know, to this day when I do something, I
don't look over my shoulder and think,
oh my god, are they going to fire me
over this? Because, you know, we have a
great relationship. We talk Now, that
doesn't mean they won't fire me for
something someday, but at the moment, I
will say I I feel like
transparency, great interchange, and I
knew right away they were supportive.
The other thing is
many, many people on our board did
listen to the whole thing, did read the
whole transcript, and when people would
come to them and say, "Oh my god, how
could you not fire her?" they would say,
"Did you listen to the whole thing?"
And then they would distribute it or
talk to people about it. And so it
wasn't only they were being supportive
in in voice, they actually were
propagating the correct message. So I
think that made a huge difference.
>> My takeaways were you were calm, you're
in a crisis, you were calm.
You had a good board that backed you,
which is invaluable.
And you clarified your statements in a
thoughtful way.
And I think that's I think that's a best
practice right there that all CEOs can
kind of learn from. Okay, there's been
some similar
I wouldn't say crisis, like actually uh
crisis averted.
Um the federal government sent you the
compact for academic excellence in
higher ed. They sent it to 11
institutions including us.
You were the first to respond, which was
interesting, way before the deadline.
And you basically very politely said,
"No, and here's why."
Why were you first?
>> Well, so a couple of reasons. First of
all, when I received the compact
I looked at it and said, "There's no way
I'm signing this thing."
>> Okay.
>> And right away
>> Right away.
>> Okay.
>> And I called uh Mark Ornburg, the chair
of the corporation. I said, "Mark, I'm
not signing this thing." And he goes,
"Who's going to make you sign this
thing?" So right away I knew I had the
chair's support, and we went to the
executive committee. Everyone was
supportive, and then eventually the
whole board. So that was the first
thing.
>> Okay.
>> Part of the reason I think we came out
quickly was rather than collectively is
because this has been true throughout
all these crises. Every school has a
little bit of a a story to tell.
>> Yeah.
>> And the crux of this, coming back to
your first question, was about merit.
You know, I didn't care what the
particulars of the letter were. They
talked about giving preferential funding
based on behaviors or commitments, not
on scientific merit. And to me, the
bedrock of scientific excellence in this
country is scientific merit. Now, MIT
has a great story to tell in terms of
merit. You know,
>> Awesome story.
>> Awesome story to tell. No legacy
admissions, no development admissions,
under 200K uh family income free
tuition. We reinstated the SATs before
other schools, etc. We had such a great
story to tell that in terms of merit, I
didn't really have any hesitancy. We
didn't have to think, well, how can we
couch this? The story sort of told
itself.
>> Got it.
>> So, I wasn't trying to, you know,
you know, make a huge statement or speak
for anyone else. I just felt like we had
a a good story to tell, and we're going
to tell it. The other thing is, I didn't
want to poke anyone in the eye. I
thought the tone that we were striving
for was, thanks, but no thanks. Like,
we'll compete with other people.
>> was extremely well written. Who wrote
that?
>> Okay, so, we have a fantastic
writer, Martha Eddison.
>> Okay, she's on the PR team? Should all
CEOs have one of these?
>> Well, someone should have a great writer
to help them, I'll tell you that. But,
what Martha did was generate a long
draft on all these points, and then four
or five of us iterated for multiple days
around the clock.
>> Okay.
>> You know, so, I would not have written
everything she wrote by scratch, but
there were uh pieces of that that I did
write myself. There are pieces of that
that various members of the team wrote.
And actually, we came down to a very few
words at the end that actually took us a
couple extra days, and we were sitting
with the executive committee of our
board discussing the letter. And we
wanted to get some of the words exactly
right.
>> Yep.
>> And so, we were arguing about different
things, and I remember our EVP, Glenn
Shore, who was the financial person,
finally like came up with a phrase and
everyone was like, "Okay, we're done
here." So, there was a lot of group
think thinking about this. Um
and I think we came to a common message
because we hang together well as a team
and we were able to be blunt. You know,
Martha will write something, I'm like,
"That is not what we want to say."
>> Okay.
>> You know, she's like, "Okay, tell me
what you want to say."
>> up the board a bunch, more than I
thought you would.
Uh
and I
all my CEOs have to build boards before
they go public.
>> Yes.
>> Advice on building a board and managing
a board.
>> Yeah, so I obviously didn't build this
board, but I do have input via our
governance committee now in terms of who
joins the board. You know, first of all,
we have a very large board, 75 people,
so that is not like most uh
you know, most companies.
>> We do, the executive committee.
>> Yeah.
>> Look, you want a range of expertise,
>> Okay.
>> but fundamentally, you want people who
are smart, with integrity, and open to
arguments.
>> Okay.
>> You know, if people come in with very
strong views and they're unwilling to
think about other viewpoints, it's going
to be incredibly frustrating. Part of
the reason I brought it up, honestly, is
cuz it's unusual
to have a board that you sync with so
easily. I have friends all over the
country and some of them have a great
board, some of them don't and have to
always kind of be maneuvering. What I
really like is their governance, but not
management.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, they let me sort of do my job.
And so, I've been you know, I've been
pretty lucky that way. That doesn't mean
we agree on everything. In fact, some of
the things in the compact letter, I had
a lot of phone calls
>> I see.
>> with people and said, "No, I'm not going
to do that." Or "No, I'm not going to
say that." But it's kind of an open
exchange. I don't really feel like I
have to parse my words and I don't think
they do either. That's what I think is
critical. People that you can be honest
with, that'll be honest with you, and
it's not existential.
Like if someone is real feeling like
>> they were all also calm in a crisis.
Boards Boards all deal with crises.
>> They were calm and many of them are see
have been CEOs or are CEOs. It's not
like you want to fill your whole board
with CEOs, but you want people who have
navigated crises, been on other boards,
>> Yep.
>> been in high-stakes situations, and
understand that
staying calm is a huge piece of managing
to navigate crisis.
>> Okay. Just kind of bringing it back to
MIT,
it's a pretty decentralized place, like
really decentralized. How do you decide
when it's like, "No, that thing that's
on the edge, I'm going to bring that in
the center and we're going to centralize
that."
Uh and then how do you decide like
you've got some big initiatives you're
pushing out there? How do you decide?
>> Yeah, so the the the centralization
thing is a lot thornier than the what
initiatives you're going to do.
Everybody wants one of their own
everything. And when you're in a budget
crisis or you really have to It's
getting rid of duplication is incredibly
difficult. Everyone views their own
research program, their own, you know,
team as like, you know, their personal
babies, right?
And so it's hard. So we try to do it
when it's absolutely necessary, either
for efficiency or financial reasons, or
because the function will just work way
better. And then you kind of navigate
the noise until people realize like,
"Yeah, actually this is kind of better."
In terms of the initiatives at a place
like MIT, a lot of it is from the bottom
up in that we look around, we see what
great work is going on, and we try to
capture it.
>> I see.
>> So what I wanted to do with these
initiatives, we have a you know, a suite
of presidential initiatives now,
I wanted to encourage
interdisciplinarity, and that goes back
to everybody being at a high level, so
whoever you collaborate with you're
going to get good partners. Um
>> Can I interrupt you on that?
>> Yes.
>> Every CEO I talk to asks me, "What do I
do with the prima donna, the brilliant
[__] sorry for the
rude language.
>> has them.
>> I We have a lot of prima donnas at MIT.
How do you deal with the prima donnas?
>> So, you know, most I've Look, I've
encountered prima donnas in my career.
Most of the prima donnas
that I've seen at MIT, and there's not
that many compared to some places,
at least they have the goods.
>> Okay.
>> The worst thing is like someone who
thinks they're great when they're not.
Like, if someone wants to come to me and
say, "My program's really important.
This is really uh you know, critical and
fantastic."
And like, you know, they've just won a
Nobel Prize. I'm not going to argue with
them. I mean, the stuff here is really
amazing. I really haven't had someone
come to defend something that I thought
was really like low quality.
But, that does make it harder to take
things away.
>> How do you take things away? Like, CEOs
all the time they're like, "We're
decentralized, decentralized." And it's
like, "No, no, no, we're going to start
centralizing."
Particularly now, there's a thing called
founder mode.
>> Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
>> And like, you look at Jack Dorsey, for
example. He just laid off 40% of
employees. Lots of people are going to
centralize.
Micromanagement's
in style. Uh What's your take on all
that?
>> of all, remember that a big part of our
workforce is tenured.
>> Right.
>> [laughter]
>> So, that's a very different, you know,
environment to navigate in. Um you know,
what I found all along, these roles,
like you want to say yes a bunch of
times, but you have to say no a huge
amount of your time. And I found if you
engage someone and really give them a
good rationale, you've really thought
through it, it's not just like, "I don't
like you." or "I don't want to do this."
most people will ultimately accept it.
Not all people. I'm sure there are
people out there that hate me because I
said no or took something away.
>> Yeah.
>> But, in general, I think people
understand that you have to make these
decisions.
>> Yeah. Okay. Education's at a funny
point. It's an interesting time to
interview you. My world is a lot of
criticism of higher ed between the Thiel
Fellowships and Mark Andreessen saying
to not go to college and Alex Karp has
the Palantir Fellowship for people. So,
all that's going on, which is
interesting.
And now we have AI.
What the hell does education look like
in 5 years?
>> That's a great question. We're talking a
lot about that. First of all, the
college experience is so much more than
some specific set of skills. Yeah. So,
people talk to me, alums talk to me
about how MIT changed their lives. It's
not because of some particular class or
some particular skill they acquired,
it's the whole environment.
>> My class actually was my class.
>> your class. [laughter] They they say
that by name. You know, and so that's,
you know, the whole college experience
is in part is important, but I think
>> I agree with that. Like I say Sloan,
it's like I got some pedigree from it. I
learned a bunch and I got a great
network. You can learn this stuff
anywhere now.
>> That's right. And the other thing is
fundamentally, we're still training
human beings. You know, no matter what
AI does, we want people who graduate
from MIT to be use you to use AI as a
tool that can augment their performance.
And so, they have to learn to live in
this environment. So, I don't know how
you think about this, but for me, like I
still I'm not sure how much you need to
have in your head to think creatively
versus how much you have to offload. Um
when we think about what we need to
train our students to do, if you ask an
AI agent a question three different
ways, you get three completely different
answers.
>> Mhm.
>> And so, how do we teach our students to
think about that? Um how much do you
have to know to know if AI is
hallucinating or just plain wrong? So,
there's a discussion going on among some
of our folks about, you know, do our
students really need to know basic
coding? And like, yes, they do because
they have to know if what they're
looking at is correct and they have to
sort of have a concept in their heads to
ask the right questions regarding
coding. Same with writing. Writing is
thinking. So, to just ask, you know, AI
to write something for you, it's not the
same as thinking through a draft,
thinking through a problem. Yes, you can
have AI help you and iterate. So, I
think what we're going to see is first
of all at a place like MIT really
thinking about how you use these tools
most effectively. Second thing, MIT's
always been this, you know,
uh
you know, hand in a hand in mind kind of
place where building things is really
important. And in one in one way AI is
forging ahead, but I think physical AI
is not really quite there yet. You know,
I I've seen like, you know, videos of,
you know, a robot trying to like, you
know,
bring a can of Coke across the room and,
you know, they turn the Coke upside down
and are trailing the Coke the Coke.
There's a lot we need to do
>> Will classrooms go away?
>> It's a good question. I don't know. I
think you could imagine a kind of
Oxbridge style tutorial system coming
out where,
you know, students work in groups with
an AI tutor that then go to class and
have a discussion with faculty. I don't
know if we're going to see the
traditional didactic lecture survive
over many years when there's so many
different ways to take in that factual
material, but the human interaction, the
discussions, the critiques from faculty,
from fellow students, that really is
what produces the, you know, college
experience and the education that you
come out of a place like MIT with. So,
do I think that's going away? I don't
think so.
>> Okay.
If you had a 17-year-old daughter,
>> If I did.
>> Uh
what would you want her to study?
>> Oh, that's interesting. Well, I have a
30-year-old daughter who is a surgeon. I
think that's a pretty good thing to have
done. But I think that's a pretty good
thing to have done.
>> Uh
>> How's the surgery of actually already
gone away, but I don't think the whole
thing
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, that
>> As somebody who's had a lot of surgery,
>> Yeah, that seems to be a pretty good
thing. Even if, you You she's very
interested in robotic surgery.
>> 17,
You're 17, you're going to school. What
do you study?
>> Yeah, that's very interesting. Um
I think there are a lot of areas of
science that are still You know, if I
were picking an area of biology for
instance now, I'm I'm a biologist.
>> Yes.
>> I would pick neuroscience. I think the
mysteries of the brain or immunology,
which I think is just going to impact
all areas of our health.
>> So
>> So nascent.
>> Yeah, there are areas that I think have
many, many years of discovery ahead of
us. But I would say only pick areas
where you really have a passion and you
really want to be a thinker. So when I
was in graduate school, you could get a
PhD sequencing a gene, a single gene.
And it was technical work, but it wasn't
actually super intellectually engaging.
I think now about companies that are,
you know, for instance, science
discovery companies where the really
great student will now have this the
equivalent of lots of hands at their
their disposal. But they still got to be
the creative one to do the thinking. If
you were just going to be the person who
were the hands, don't do a PhD.
Because that that is
>> That could change 5 years from now, like
Google outsource information. These AI
systems are kind of outsourcing
cognition.
It's I don't know. I I think it's going
to change a lot or not. Like I'm
thinking about my course and like what
do I do next year? I'm trying to think
about how I might
>> No, I hear you. I mean, even if you're
thinking about being a physician, think
about how much AI is changing image
analysis. Would you be a radiologist
now? Maybe, maybe not. You know, would
you be a pathologist now? Maybe, maybe
not. I don't know because we still don't
know how much human judgment
We know in in terms of like, is this
cancer? Is this not cancer? But that's
not the only judgment folks are making.
So I I think we don't know enough yet.
>> Okay.
>> And I want students to be
what we really want our students to be
curious and teach them to think
critically. A 17-year-old doesn't have
to pick their career, nor do they have
to pick a career that's going to last
the rest of their lives.
>> Yeah. Because people pivot constantly
now.
>> Do you care
where like what the vocational path of
graduates do? Like computer science
students like a lot of them are going to
quant shops. A lot of them go and do
their PhD.
Some do startups. I wish more would do
startups.
Uh
Does MIT care?
>> Uh you know, that's interesting. So,
I've This This is not a new question to
me, because even when I had a biology
lab, but half my students went to
industry and half went to academia. And
at that time, even that was
controversial among a lot of faculty who
really thought we should only be
spending our time and effort training
PhDs who were going to go into academia.
I have never particularly cared where
people go, except that wherever they're
going to go, they have to be prepared to
a level of excellence. So, if you tell
me you're going to industry and you tell
me you're going to academia, I don't
care, because you, while you're here,
you have to evince the same level of
excellence in your preparation. And so,
I think that that it's not like we
tailor our education
to someone's specific future career
goal.
>> Okay.
>> We want them to have the kind of
knowledge base
and ability to navigate the world that
will enable them to do anything they
want to do. But that means you can't cut
corners just because someone's going to
do something that you don't think
requires the full suite of educational
opportunities.
>> And you talk about related to this, the
Kate initiative you have, which I love.
Why are you doing it? And
do you care what happens in the city
around you? Does that industry matter to
you?
>> It really does. Um First of all,
we've all seen the impact of biotech on
surrounding area. And you know as well
as I do that, you know, we've seen a lot
of the AI action go to the West Coast.
>> Yeah. And [laughter] so, look,
I think first of all, I want our
students and our faculty to be able to
bring to the world as rapidly as
possible their great discoveries. So,
that's one thing.
>> Yeah.
>> But, I also do want to see the people
who are here populate our local
ecosystem.
>> Okay, you do care about that.
>> I do.
>> Okay.
>> I do because first for a number of
reasons. One is just for, you know, base
economic reasons. I think it's important
for the country for the region rather.
But, another region reason is that MIT
is part of this rich ecosystem. And you
know, students are going back and forth,
faculty are going back and forth. I want
there to be a continuing dialogue
between what's going on at a place like
MIT and what's happening in the in the
real world kind of thing. And so,
proximity is really important. We want
to, for instance, we're thinking about
whether our students should be doing
more co-ops and have more opportunities
in these companies. Things have to be
proximal for you to be able to do that.
So, there's a lot of reasons to want
that to happen. And the vitality of
Massachusetts has always been about sort
of the education economy and
cutting-edge tech economy. And I don't
want to see that go down the drain.
>> I don't either. Sally, uh my first
exposure to you was that congressional
hearing.
>> Oh, great. [laughter]
>> And
>> "I want to talk to her."
>> No, and as
as an alum, I was like I it was I was
my NPS was low on you. Like, that was my
exposure. I was like, "Who is I didn't
know anything about her?" I was like,
"Ah."
And then, how you handled that crisis,
how you handled the hecklers at last
year's graduation.
>> Oh, right. I almost forgot about that.
>> You're [laughter]
You're an outstanding leader and I'm
really proud to be associated with MIT.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks very much.
>> Everybody, I hope you liked that
interview with Sally. I think she's a
real gem. A couple of my takeaways, some
things I learned or maybe forgot from
when I was a CEO. She's handled a couple
of whopper crises really well and
several of the other podcast guests have
like Vlad from Robinhood's been through
a couple whoppers and some of this stuff
rhymes and almost all of you will
probably go through some major crises.
Um, some of my takeaways are even though
you're in an absolute tornado and inside
you're kind of boiling up, you're losing
it.
Somehow magically you have to show a
calm exterior. It is not easy, it's
unnatural, but in a crisis the CEO needs
to do that.
If you have made a mistake, like she
made a mistake in front of Congress
there's an expression an old colleague
of mine used to use, when you explain
you lose. You know, like you're spinning
it, you're explaining it, you're
explaining it and people just tune out.
Made a mistake, just admit it.
Clarify your remarks if you need to
clarify them and do it quickly. Don't
sit on it. Another hack she has that we
had at HubSpot
have an excellent writer on board
because you have to verbally communicate
stuff but so much is done in writing and
in her case and HubSpot's case many
times a vel- very well written post
internally and externally
is gold and we had a couple of couple of
moments where that really mattered and I
took a lot of writing classes, my
co-founder is a good writer and we
leaned on that heavily. So, if you're
not a great writer, it doesn't even have
to be your comms person, somebody on
your team should be an excellent writer.
And the last piece is just she has a
very good board and her board boards on
board with her. That's underrated. You
want your board to be behind you. We
talked about meritocracy and sustaining
excellence. My co-founder and I have and
HubSpot graduated from MIT and we tried
to keep sort of the culture of MIT into
HubSpot.
And the way I would like to describe
this is my mother my Every time I visit
my mother
uh all her friends' kids seem like
they're were looking for jobs so I get a
stack of three or four resumes every
time I visit her. And of course they
refer them back to HubSpot. HubSpot
didn't care that I referred them. In
fact, it might have even been a black
mark that I referred them. And so, much
more often than not they didn't get the
job. That really irritated my mother,
but I think was good for HubSpot.
Um, another thing about this, I think
she didn't talk about this, but I think
it's like a lot of founders ask me like,
"Who should I be interviewing and when
what skills should I stop interviewing?"
I'll give you my two rules of thumb. You
should all obviously interview the
people who are directly reporting to you
in the circle and that next level out.
Um, I also think like as you're scaling
fast, you can interview everybody up to
100 employees. Not the first interview,
but the final interview. And a couple of
my CEOs are doing that around 100
employees. It starts to really break
down there. Like they have 10-minute
interviews on their calendar, but I
think you should have veto rights up
until about that point on everyone cuz
you're kind of setting the foundation.
Two other hacks that we had at HubSpot
that really worked on the meritocracy
side. Um, one is
you know, she talked about this, but
like they didn't necessarily write down
this idea of of sort of excellence and
meritocracy. It was cultural.
We had something similar. We had our
five values. And in the form you would
fill out after you interviewed someone,
all five values would be on there and
you'd scale you'd rate them on a scale
of one to four. That kind of built the
values into the system and we'd go back
later and compare how are we doing on
those values.
And then for every person we interview
would score them. And my only advice on
interviewing particularly exacts is it's
very tempting we did this a lot to hire
the person with [music] the least amount
of weaknesses that everyone liked. As
opposed to hiring the person who maybe
has some weaknesses that some people
were negative on, but some people really
thought were great. You know, we when we
started hiring spiky people, in fact,
Yamini, the current CEO of HubSpot,
started doing [music] this, it really
paid off for us.
Anyway, those are some of my takeaways.
I hope you like the pod. I think she's
incredible. I'm a proud graduate, and
I'll see you on the next pod.